This last leg of this workshop is called,
things that Steve is really excited about,
mock service worker.
Let's talk about Playwright.
So we talked a lot about the unit tests.
Great, fast, awesome.
Not super great forgetting that
sanity check very early on
when you are either,
maybe it's a bad code base of your own,
maybe you're responsible,
maybe you inherited it.
I'm saying that you inherited it
just to give everyone a feeling, but
some of you are like, no, I did this.
Honestly, to be clear,
there's a lot of reasons why your test
coverage might suck that are your fault.
A lot of reasons why your test coverage
might be bad that's your fault,
but then choosing editing
which one they like.
I think a lot about like a year ago we
we did this rush to build out this Admin
dashboard for managing a whole bunch of
stuff around our SaaS product, right?
Because previously if you wanted to add
a user, you follow Zendesk ticket and
someone from engineering did it.
There's a cap on how many customers we
can onboard when you're doing stuff
manually, right?
And it was uncalled for
the cloud team was terrible.
So we chose to do one of those mad dashes,
right, and get some stuff done.
And the APIs came late, as I joked
about before, but we had stuff, so
we were good but integration was hard.
But we were also still figuring out,
the designs were changing.
So did we write really great tests?
No, because we didn't even know
the full shape of the thing yet, right?
And like, yeah, we threw it
together somewhat quickly, right?
And so there have been times, honestly,
in the last nine months that
I have been responsible for
code bases that I would be embarrassed
about demoing in front of you, right?
And for really good reasons that I'm
very comfortable with having made,
absolutely, right?
So then the question is like how do
you actually know this thing works in
the perspective of a customer or user?
And then also the way that I'm mostly
going to kind of spin this because
again we did an entire
workshop on Cypress.
We should probably do an entire
one on Playwright at some point.
Right, talk to Mark.
But the theme that we're
gonna kinda focus on here for
our purposes is how do we use this tool?
To the question someone said
before about what 20% and
what 80% are you covering, right?
How can we use this tool for
rapidly getting some sanity
around this code base?
And so we're not gonna go all the way
into everything Playwright does.
We are going to do the high level of,
here is the 20% that you need to know
that will make your life a lot easier.
And then we can kind of
build on it from there.
So, with that, let's do a quick like just
read everyone on what Playwright is.
The prior iterations of Playwright
have gone by other names.
I mean,
they've been different technologies.
You might have used like WebDriver.io,
Selenium which is the Jenkins of
why I'm gonna get so many emails.
There's Selenium,
there's WebDriver, Cypress,
Playwright is the latest hotness and for
good merit right now just
because it's the newest.
There is a protocol for
interaction and driving Chrome.
It's either the Chrome Developer, a CDP,
kind of basically driving
operating Chrome.
It's like if you use like puppeteer,
the same basic kind of concept.
That team I believe it's at least
somewhat owned as a strong word
maintained by Microsoft this point.
But the team did work to kind
of build the same bindings for
Firefox and even WebKit/Safari, so
you can drive all these
things based on the modern,
latest and greatest JavaScript tooling.
Cuz I was like I've joked and
alluded too between ES modules and
TypesSripty stuff, right?
The ecosystem has like done one of
those like giant quantum leaps in
the last few years where
even just in Cypress and
I to be clear I still have a slightly
older version of Cypress like things that
don't support ES modules like
Storybook was guilty of this.
There's a lot of things that basically
became untenable in modern apps because
they were built on common js cuz
that's what existed at the time.
So in a new app I would definitely say
stuff that if it were a modern app, cool.
You might still choose to use like all
this stuff will work too with the older
stuff as well.
But, so it does bring a lot of that
modern module system build processes to
the table.
It also does drive Firefox and even Safari
cuz Safari is a weird one these days.
And allows you to do a bunch
of really great stuff for
basically spinning up a bunch of browsers,
navigating through them.
And kind of kicking the tires on it.
And like I said, honestly a few
really good integration tests.
So one of the questions from the chat
before if they break, won't give you
a lot of insight to why they broke cuz
they are far from the implementation.
But a few really good browser based
integration tests will at least
give you the confidence that
everything works, right?
Not a lot of insight when it doesn't.
But giving you a lot of confidence that
things actually work the way that you want
and getting you to the point where you
can start on that large scale refactor.
And trying to pay down that tech debt
without losing your mind in the process.